I was in Afghanistan in 2014 as a Navy
SEAL we're in the middle of this
gunfight and a grenade came over the
wall and it
detonated and I'm waiting to either be
shot by the enemy or going to bleed to
death and all that was running through
my head was and that's the way I think
people should look at their lives so
interesting cuz I've never actually
heard someone give that kind of advice
before Mr bullan is a former Navy SEAL
turned Master Storyteller and content
creator who uses his Battlefield
experiences and personal failures to
inspire educate and help people overcome
challenges to achieve their goals my
family were very successful people with
pullit Sur prises PhD and then there's
me getting into street fights and about
to get expelled but it took becoming a
colossal failure to realize if you want
to fix this you have start with saying
it's my fault and then do something
about it but then fear becomes the thing
keeping people from doing it and it's
the very select number of people in this
life say I'm going to still do that
thing that scares the out of me that
have the best and most fulfilling life
and so I decided to become a Navy SE
because it's was only a really small
percent that make it through the ruing
mentally torturing training and what's
the similarities that you noticed
between the people that made it two
words it's but then I realized the
reality of the job you kill people and I
had really leaned into being as like
Alpha as I possibly could be but there
were just some things that I did and I
just I struggled so so bad I had to face
My Demons what have you learned about
dealing with demons if you begin to have
those thoughts the only way I have found
to sort of cope with them is
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much John yes there are clues in your
early context that suggest you might
have walked the path that you've walked
in your life but there's also clues that
suggest you absolutely would never have
done what you've done yeah so taking me
back to that early context yeah what do
I need to know about that environment
the influences of that environment to
understand how you ended up where you
are today I I think it all starts with
you know the family I was born into
where like very successful academic
people so I was born in a in a town
called Quincy Massachusetts it's just
south of Boston Mass and you know my my
mother father and two sisters are like
Brilliant Minds in like the academic
sense of the word just like brilliant uh
you know my sister one of my sisters uh
has gone on to win two pullit Sur prises
my dad's won a pullitzer prize my this
not even flex but to give you a sense of
the people in my life my other sister
like has a PHD and she like worked out
of a Harvard lab my my mom is a
professional writer and then there's me
when I was growing up I uh I I could
have done well in school you know but I
didn't want to it was sort of like my my
form of rebellion was being a bad
student willfully and I would like go
out and party with my friends and just
was like trying to be sort of like a bad
kid in a way and also like the town I
grew up in was sort of a it was not a
place where academics really thrived
it's like a really working class like
hard and tough place I mean quin's
becoming much much nicer but it was a
little bit of a tough place and I sort
of wanted to be like an edgy like tough
guy and so I'd like get into street
fights and get my ass kicked and like
I'd like stay out drinking with my
friends but what it did is it set me up
for like colossal failure uh by the time
I got to college I got into college
because my mom the professional writer
wrote my college essay and my grades
were horrible in high school in fact so
bad that when I sent off my application
the the school got in touch with me and
they were like hey your grades are not
really what we're looking for but boy
that essay was so beautiful we're going
to give you a chance and so I get into
college I go to the University of
Massachusetts out in western Mass it's
like where a lot of kids where I was
growing up that's where I went to school
but it's a big party school and I just
immediately bombed first semester like I
I got a 1.016 GPA which it should have
been like a zero I basically didn't go
to class I uh I was involved in this
this Riot so at some point the uh our
football team which was a team that no
one cared about even the people who went
to the school we didn't care about it no
offense to the Minute Men they're very
good now but at the time in 2006 they
weren't they made it to like this
conference game or something this is
like not big time D1 this is like D1 daa
so like very high level football but not
going to be on TV or anything and the
the college the student body again they
don't really care about the football
team but for some reason when they lost
this game it just like instilled this
need to Riot on campus and it was like
concentrated in this one area of Campus
where I happened to live and I like went
out there and I was like breaking
windows and being this horrible kid and
the security cameras everywhere
recording you and it got to the point
where at the end of the semester there
was like this Witch Hunt to to find the
people that have been involved in this
Riot and there was like the the website
had post the college Police website had
posted all these images of just faces of
people in the crowd that were a part of
it and anybody could anonymously name
people if they saw them and it was like
everybody got expelled and I found
pictures of me and I just got my grades
back 1.016 and at the same time I've
been telling my brilliant parents yeah
I'm doing great in school things are
going really well getting good grades
and I had to tell them like actually
it's the opposite and I'm probably going
to get expelled if I don't withdraw so
my dad comes out to the school and he
like sits down with the dean who also
says John has all these violations of
living in the dorm like noise complaints
and being a jerk that we're going to
kick him out of the dorms even if he
stays at the school he has to live live
off campus and my my mom and dad are
like you're coming home uh we're done
with this like you're an adult and you
can either like live at home and go to
school or get a job but like you're
going to be an adult and so I come home
what age I was 18 18 so I come home and
I uh I was living in my mom's basement
in quiny and I remember the first couple
of weeks I was home I I actually felt
mad at my parents like how dare they
make me withdraw from the school even
though there's all this information that
like it's completely my fault but I I
had like an epiphany when I was
literally in my mom's basement when I
sort of realized like oh this is my
fault like I have created like a habit
pattern and a way of thinking that's put
me in my mom's basement with no
Direction like I've been gifted all
these opportunities that I've squandered
and something sort of changed in my head
where it was like I don't want to be a
screw-up I don't want to be that I'm
looking at my my family members as being
so successful and I just was like I
can't be that I'm suddenly becoming
self-aware that that's the path I'm on
I'm going to be the guy that like
floundered everything and and didn't
amount to anything and so I just made it
simple I was like I'm just going to like
go to a local school get good grades and
like graduate from college that's going
to be my focus for now and I did that I
went to a local school I got my grades
up I actually transferred back to the
school that I withdrew from to finish
out my my couple of years in
college but the it was like a drug like
having a goal that I was working towards
like doing something that was worth my
time and like studying I I I was like
struggling with school but I I I worked
so hard I was in the library all the
time like feeling like getting to feel
what it feels like to be working towards
a goal and achieving it was like really
addictive for me and so by the time I
was like in my last year in college I
actually ironically had no clue what I
would do Post College it was sort of
like well the goal was just to graduate
college I don't really have a clue
what's next and and I I I thought about
briefly becoming a lawyer or something I
because I was studying philosophy in
English because I like those two
subjects and they sort of fit the mold
but I had always sort of had this draw
this calling to to serve in the military
because my uh just some some friends of
mine in high school went off to serve uh
in in the military in 2006 like they
went to Iraq and
Afghanistan but I but I wanted to do
something really hard in the military
because I needed like a big goal you
know and it like graduating college was
this goal that I had achieved
and I was like I want to do something
hard in the military and that's when I
got turned on to the SEAL Teams and the
cool thing about the Navy SEAL Teams is
virtually anybody can apply to be a seal
uh you know you have to like have the
right physical fitness you have to be a
citizen there's a few things but
basically anybody can try out but it's
only those who s who survive the
training that become seals and it's a
really small percentage of people and it
just really was the thing that was like
wait a minute if I do that if I go
through like this this baptism of going
through this rigorous training I'll
become a guy that will no longer be
viewed as like the the screw-up in high
school who sort of got it together with
college I'll be able to reinvent myself
I'll be able to to serve in the military
which is something I I felt the calling
to do it's a career that I can kind of
progress into and it's a big freaking
challenge that's going to require a
whole bunch of training and prep before
I get to go and so I kind of just
shifted my goal from graduate college to
become a Navy SEAL and everything fell
in line and then naturally after that I
became a YouTuber which is an even
longer story but basically I yeah became
a seal and then I got hurt medically
retired and then I basically posted
something online that went viral and I
love telling stories as you can see from
this long intro uh and I just kept
telling stories and now I'm here so but
it started with like setting a goal and
achieving it and it's which sounds so
basic but I think a lot of people go
through life just sort of doing stuff
because because they were told to or
they just sort of fell into it I found
like setting a goal that's consciously
something you care about for whatever
reason and working hard to achieve it it
like organizes your whole life and so my
life starting with coming home from from
college and being in the basement has
been a series of set a goal and shoot
for that goal and that's all that
matters it's interesting because even
before that there was something that
seemed to happen to you in that basement
which I consider to be the starting
place which is awareness yeah this like
self-awareness and with that
self-awareness came responsibility you
said actually I need to stop blaming my
Mom and Dad yeah there I have a role to
play in this yeah and that's really
really hard for I think for everybody to
be truly aware of how you might be
contributing to the circumstances of
your own life it's a harsh truth when
you realize it's your fault or or a big
part of it is your fault but that's what
self-awareness is like taking
responsibility for the good and the bad
and what's your relationship been like
with responsibility and like what's your
view on the importance of that broadly I
would say that when I was you know pre-
basement moment
I was definitely in the mindset of
playing the victim and if something bad
happened it was somebody else's fault
and not taking responsibility for
anything I was I was the guy that would
come home from school and I'd tell my
mom like you wouldn't believe it we had
a test today and Joey got a 50 I got a
65 but Joey got a 50 it's like you're
sort of like that's the way you approach
it versus like I failed the test um but
when I sort of decided I would graduate
college and organize my life around that
and then become a seal I realized that
it's not enough to simply just say I'm
going to do this thing like you need to
own like the entire process and like for
example in uh in Seal training there
were a couple moments where like I
myself failed miserably catastrophically
at like tests and opportunities to to be
a leader and I just like squandered it
in in in a way so the way SEAL training
works is it's very reputational like as
you go along uh in training you know
it's like the closer you get to
graduation the the closer you get to
being a real seal and so your
instructors those are active duty seals
and they're no longer viewing you
towards the end of training as being
just some like oh candidate now it's
like you could be my teammate there's
not too many of us and so it changes
from you aren't going to make it to you
better do a good job because I might
need your help you know down the line
and I remember in the final part of
training there's this confidence
exercise where they basically expose
your class to uh tiar guests which is
something that's pretty standard in the
military uh and the only thing they say
is like this is a like it's all about
mentality here it's a confidence booster
it's going to suck it's going to make
you want to feel like you're you're
you're dying from this gas and it's like
a long exposure and they they they set
you up in this like Square you're all
just standing you're kneeling
shoulder-to-shoulder if you will out in
this open field on San Clemente Island
in in in in California and all the
instructors have their gas mess on and
they have these pool sticks like that
you would swap like trash out of a pool
but at the end they have the Cs grenade
canisters and they're like all right
they put their mask on they they fire
off these CS grenades this big white
smoke comes out and they hand they hold
out the pole and you just you get
covered in CS gas and the whole all you
have to do is not run just stay here and
take it that's the whole point and Ian
it was like a figh ORF flight Instinct
completely it was like before I and it
was instant it wasn't like uh oh this is
really bad what am I going to do what am
I going to do it was like
instantaneously I ran I had to get
tackled by one of the instructors
because I was just out I wasn't even
thinking it was like and nobody else ran
this is the end of training and so
afterwards it's like I was brought into
the the amphitheater there's this little
theater where they would teach us
classes about ordinance and whatever and
they were like Allan stand up and all my
peers know I did this all the
instructors know I did this and he just
goes the main instructor he's like Allan
you're a [__] [__] sit down
he goes you're a [__] [__] and I
never want to serve with you and neither
and neither should your classmates sit
down and it was it and I had to from
that point on for the rest of training
wear uh these like it's almost like a
bikini over my shorts and it was like
the worst moment ever because i' I've
made it so far into training but I knew
and also by the way at this point we
weren't even home I wasn't able to go
home see my wife we're out at this
island for a month you don't you work
seven days a week you're you are in
training until you're done and the only
choice was like own the fact that you
did that don't make excuses for it like
let this show people my actual strength
which seems funny because I did the
thing I'm not supposed to do but instead
of like running from it literally own it
take responsibility for what you did and
show people that you know what I'm
prepared to show up for work every day
wearing these [__] Trunks and and be
looked at as a lesser than to
demonstrate that I'm not there's some
something really important in that
that's really um really also critical to
business but just really critical to
anyone that's professional or in a
relationship which is if you make a
mistake you get the second opportunity
which is how you respond to the mistake
you made and in fact so many times in
business you know when I was running a
marketing business we'd have clients and
we might drop the ball in some way but
we can actually make the relationship
stronger than it was before the mistake
by how we responded so making a quick
phone call apologizing taking
responsibility yeah I mean I think that
there definitely were some people that
did carry that sort of like stigma into
the teams because right after we
finished this we kind of went into the
SEAL Teams but I I do think that there
was definitely some people that and I'm
not even tooting my own horn I really
think this happened that as a result of
that moment knew they could like trust
that I was prepared to sort of like I'm
going to take responsibility for me I'm
going to do what I'm supposed to do I'm
going to be the best teammate I can be
even at my lowest you're still going to
get the best version of me and that
doesn't mean I think I'm better than
anybody else it just means I'm an adult
and I think that's that's a big part of
being an adult is responsibility is
ultimately owning those mistakes and
sometimes your mistakes are painful and
public and awful and that's the most
important time to own them and like you
said like that's your opportunity in
some ways not just to rectify the
mistake but to become a stronger better
version of yourself and I think that my
mistake in college was a series of
mistakes my first semester of screwing
it up and getting sent back home but it
was only when I recognized that it was
my fault and I had to own that that I
was able to graduate college and try to
become a Navy SEAL and then in the
process like have the the Cs grenade
happen but in some ways that made me a
better seal you know so I think that
like in Failure comes the best
opportunity for Success which is
something that I certainly didn't coin
but it's the truth what is the Navy
Seals because you know around the world
I think people are aware of the term
Navy Seals but we don't actually know
fully what it is yeah so um every branch
of I think basically every military in
the world this is a a broad
generalization but it's it's it's
usually the case that virtually every
branch of every military has some form
of specialized unit that carries out
Special Operations it's the stuff that
you know the Call of Duty video games
and Modern Warfare those are based on
like the idea of specialized combat
units that that go out and do these kind
of difficult and high stakes missions
and so in in the US you have the Army
the Navy the Marine Corps the Coast
Guard and the Air Force and each of them
have like their like respective Special
Operations divisions like you have uh
marine Special Operations and Marines
you have the PJs the par rescue jumpers
and the Air Force there there's multiple
but of all the Special Operations units
in America of all the different branches
you could make the case that the most
and I'm get some Flack from people that
disagree with me the most let's say
well-known and potentially
most skilled and I say that carefully
because of course there are other there
are other groups like The Green braids
who are incredible at certain things but
the the most skilled at multiple
disciplines is very likely the Navy SEAL
Teams and it's because the the acronym
seal stands for Sea Air land so SE and a
the idea is even though it's under the
Navy which is sort of like Maritime and
and water the reality is that the SEAL
Teams are a special operations group
that can insert into virtually any any
environment sea air or land they can
also use multiple insertion platforms
whether it's diving jumping going in on
land it's like a highly vers
Special Operations group whereas a lot
of the other Special Operations groups
not just in the United States but
internationally are kind of specialized
in certain geographies like you have
Mountain Warfare Specialists you have
like the Dutch have this incredible uh
diving unit uh but the seals are like we
do everything and they also sort of came
into prominence they they started in the
60s under JFK they really came into
prominence post 911 because they were
being sent out into the Middle East
which is you know it's a landlock place
but this Navy Special Operations unit
was being very successful carrying out
you know kinetic operations all across
the Middle East so it's like a a very
famous uh Jack of all trade Special
Operations group that especially after
the bin Laden raid as well that sort of
made them celebrities but even before
that they were very well known as like
the Jack of all trade Special Operations
group and how long is training how long
does it take to to get through training
and pass the other end broadly speaking
I would say it takes about two years uh
but realistically it takes a little bit
longer so you have um there's two ways
to become a seal you either go in as an
enlisted person so there's the enlisted
component of the military which is
somebody basically without a college
degree who just like raises their hand
and just serves like that's like the
grunts of the world those are the
enlisted Community uh and then you have
the officer side just somebody who at a
minimum needs to have like a college
degree to apply you go to like Officer
school and in the SEAL Teams there's
like a tiny tiny number of Officer seals
and a massive number of enlisted seals
but there are two very different
Pathways into training if you go the
officer route it's practically like a
political appointment just to get an
opportunity like it's so so difficult to
even get a chance to try out that what
you get and it's because there's just
like a handful of spots available that's
that's really all it was so you have all
these people on the enlisted side who
actually have college degrees and could
easily like become an officer in the
military who let's say have other
opportunities that they could pursue
with their college degree but they want
to be a seal you have this big number of
people that are electing to go be
enlisted to try out to be seals and
that's important because it makes the
enlisted side super competitive you have
like these professional athletes and you
have like Olympians and you have like
the best college athletes and you have
MMA fighters and wrestlers and then like
the random people like me who have no
resume and you all just show up for the
class in San Diego that technically is
six months long but there's like before
you've even jooin the Navy you need to
basically compete for a spot to even
have a chance to to try out and there's
a whole application process before
you've joined the Navy that can take
years and then let's say you get your
chance as an enlisted person they're
like okay you're going to get a chance
to go well first you got to go to boot
camp that's two months in Chicago and
technically you can fail out of it but
really you won't it's sort of like a
suck it up and get through it but then
at the end of boot camp at least when I
went through you go to this other school
which is like a prep school it's another
two months in Chicago mind you you
haven't even started training yet this
is like potentially a year of pre- Navy
and now you're 4 months in to like
you're in the Navy but you're not really
in Seal training yet you go to this prep
school where you like learn how to swim
and run you you already know how to do
these things but professional coaches
work with you the Navy invests a lot of
money and getting you really
strengthened up and mentally
strengthened because following the prep
school you go to San Diego where you go
through what's regarded as like the
hardest part of SEAL training which is
uh it's called buds Buds and it stands
for basic underwater demolition seal
school and it's basically imagine
whatever you think of as boot camp like
military boot camp make it not two
months long but 6 months long because
most boot camps are about two and make
it like a thousand times more difficult
it's really the same Concepts it's like
intense grueling physical emotional and
mental like torture for six months and
that's the part where everybody fails
out and drops out that's like the if you
made a movie about SEAL training you'd
really only focus on the six months of
buds training and in fact you'd only
focus on the first two months because
that's the most physically challenging
and then once you finish that you go to
Advanced Training you're still not a
seal yet it's another six months of like
learning how to actually do the job so
buds is like can you handle it Advanced
Training or seal qualification training
is I'm going to teach you how to shoot a
gun with surgical Precision I'm going to
teach you how to jump out of a plane I'm
going to teach you how to like use this
technology because you need to know how
to do the job so learn the job and then
after that you'll go to like or we did
anyways I don't know if they do this now
you go to like a language school for a
month or you'll go to like a medical
school or some sort of school to give
you additional qualifications and then
you go to your team and so all told you
have about two years from I want to be a
Navy SEAL to I am now a Navy Seal two
years is usually the mark and what's the
similarities that you noticed between
the people that made it and didn't the
thing that stands out honestly and this
is what is pretty universally true
although there's some outliers is the
folks who show up to buds the candidates
who show up to buds that have like an
incredible resume there was a guy that
showed up to training who literally
played for the Arizona Diamondbacks he's
like 6'5 looks just like a god and he's
so humble like he's this big strong
professional baseball player who I I
actually have a memory specifically of
playing with his character in a video
game and like there's there's other
people who who are like professional
football players and all that and he
washed out so quick and a lot of the
other guys with with big resumés like
the sports and and big accomplishments
they typically wash out really really
quickly and it's not because they lack
the physical to do it they don't they
definitely don't it's that if you this
is generalizing because this is not true
of everybody but let's take the guy who
played for the Diamondbacks so this
person is used to being generally
speaking the very best person at what
they do their whole lives and it's not
because there's anything wrong with them
it's just sort of a truth that's how you
became a professional baseball player
that's how it works in buds your
instructors don't [__] care about who
you were and it's like a point they make
they don't care at all about what you've
done before in fact if they even suspect
that you think you're special because
you have some bullet point on your
resume like playing for the Diamondbacks
they will torture you and and see if you
really got it they will single you out
and specifically make you feel terrible
and and tell your class to like look at
this guy he can't even do push-ups you
play for the Diamondbacks you can't even
do push-ups even though the guy's doing
push-ups just fine but he's like look
that doesn't even count that doesn't
count do another one get in the water do
this do that it's it's it's a mind game
but the guy's like me who I went to Buds
and I'm like I literally am a joke
compared to the people that are here I
wasn't in great shape relative to my
peers I'm certainly not a professional
athlete the only thing on my resume is
well I nearly flunked out of college but
then managed to graduate college that is
the extent of my resume I played a
little baseball in high school and so
for me I have very little to lose like
either I'll make it and that'll be
amazing and I'll get to do the thing I
want to do or I won't and people will
say that's about right the folks that go
in that have the resumes on on some
level they expect to be really good even
if they're humble and everybody in their
personal lives also expects them to make
it through because who wouldn't he
played for the Diamondbacks expectation
B it's brutal and and the course is too
long to Simply gut your way through it
the the level of physical discomfort
that you experience in buds is so
unbelievably high that it's not you got
to want to be here that's the way they
say it you got to want to be here if you
want to make it through it's you need to
have something to hold on to in your
brain that overrides the discomfort and
it can't be oh I need to make everybody
else happy I need to live up to
expectations maybe that's strong enough
for you for most people it's not like
when you are at like your absolute
lowest like what do you hold on to and
it's for people like me it was like I
have to prove myself to the like to
myself I want to prove to myself that I
can do this hard thing like it was not
even about serving in the military it
was accomplishing this goal because I've
set my mind to it and I want to I want
to believe that I'm the guy that can set
goals that are hard and Achieve them and
so in in my worst moments I would go to
that place where I'm like this is worth
it to me but for other guys it's not and
so so at the end when you graduate you
look around and it's like a rag tag
group of like short sort of weird
looking guys that don't in any way
embody like what you would think of as
like I mean some guys do some guys are
unbelievable studs but it's like a rag
tag group of guys that just didn't quit
and a lot of it is because they had some
sort of of chip on their shoulder that
internally drove them and it allowed
them to persevere when things got so bad
cuz things get so bad in buds if I were
to meet the guy in his mother's basement
and then meet the guy who qualified from
the Seals training yeah in terms of
their mentality like their psychology
how would they be different what is it
that what evidence does the guy that
graduated from Seal training have that
the other guy doesn't have what is that
what's the difference I mean not just to
like shamelessly cycle back to this idea
of responsibility but I'm going to do
that before when I first got to the
basement I've just arrived I was really
not even able to see what a mess I had
made of my life it wasn't like I knew I
had screwed up and was blaming other
people it was more like my default
setting was this is somebody else's
fault somebody did this to me like I
actively remember being furious with my
mom and dad for making me withdraw from
college when I literally was about to
get expelled I had a terrible GPA I
couldn't afford to live in the in the
dorms I had I had shown no there was no
evidence to suggest I would succeed in
college it wasn't until I was like home
in the basement in the sort of like
living in my mom's basement with no
direction that I I just sort of
naturally happened I was like wait a
minute it's you it's not them it's you
and it seems so obvious now but it took
falling to the bottom and also by the
way kudos to my mom cuz she single mom
she didn't give an f she was not like
don't worry you'll figure it out she was
like no you're going to get a job or
you're going to move out or whatever and
you're also going to pay rent while
you're here and uh that's it like this
is your fault and at first I'm mad but
it it's sort of like it became this
arduous thing I had to overcome so it
was like no self-awareness none and
genuinely blaming the world for my
problems to like probably if anything an
extreme on the other side where like if
you have already noticed I'm like
talking about the Cs gas thing that I
mentioned to you earlier mhm that's
something that if that happened to other
people I don't know if they' talk about
it on such a public platform especially
just in our in the seal Community like
reputation is such a big thing that even
talking about things that other people
know about but that cast you in sort of
a bad light reputationally I think
people would stay away from saying that
you know like but for me I view it as a
strength to highlight not only the
things that I'm good at but the things
that I've made a mess of and screwed up
up because it shows other people that
I'm secure so it's like Ultra self-aware
and secure in my image the opposite as
the basement kid and it took basically
falling to the bottom being home no no
new opportunities in front of me other
people are off at College succeeding and
here I am in my mom's basement for it to
sink in that like if you want to fix
this you have to start with saying it's
my fault and then do something about it
and it worked this idea of Rock Bottom
it's so interesting and it sounds um
sounds pretty tragic that sometimes
people do need to go to the bottom on
their own yeah to realize that as the
quote says the pain of staying the same
is greater than the pain of making a
change never heard that that's like 18
years old and I was in just dropped out
of University and I saw someone on
YouTube say the pain of um change
happens when the pain of staying the
same becomes greater than the pain of
making a change and this kind of speaks
to why some people sometimes when you
listen to their stories it wasn't until
they hit the basement that they were
able to look themselves in the mirror
and then take actions in the right
direction but also sometimes when you
try and help someone and you prop them
up like if your mother had gone listen
uh here's some money and you know here's
some uh you don't have to pay rent right
she' be propping you up a little bit and
keep away yeah I'm I'm trying to think
about the kid that's listening to this
right now that can relate yeah well the
person in their life they they might be
in a job or whatever that can relate to
knowing that there's something quite not
quite right in their life maybe they
maybe they're at a point where they can
start to look themselves in the room and
take
responsibility but do they do they have
to go to Rock Bottom to start to change
their life well I think that part of the
reason or I should say this is more of a
general statement that kind of answers
this um I in in a way was fortunate
because when I hit rock bottom I I am a
person that does not have what is it
called paralysis by analysis I'm sort of
an impulsive person for better or worse
and so for me it's like once I hit that
rock bottom it wasn't hard for me to
sort of quickly find a good North Star
which the first one was College I'm I'm
goingon to do college right M and then
when I was nearing the end of college by
this point I've sort of rided the ship
at this point but I wanted a new goal it
was like oh SEAL training that checks
some boxes it's like I want to serve
check like it's a super hard goal check
I'll have to work for it like it it
offers me a chance at reinvention and
rebirth check okay good like I jumped to
that that's what I do I think there are
plenty of people and I'm this is my
guess I don't know if it's true who
maybe have already hit rock bottom and
they want to make a change they know
it's their fault or whatever situation
that they they know they've contributed
to it but they don't know what to do
next and there's so many choices think
about it if you're at Rock Bottom in
some ways you have every choice in the
world to make and I think that one of
the things that I certainly preach when
I talk about this at all which I guess
in situations like this is you don't
need like a perfect idea you just need
something that checks enough boxes for
you to be worth doing so for me it was
like okay I'm in my mom's basement I've
done this to myself I am the reason I'm
not at school I'm the reason that like
my parents are embarrassed about their
son it's my fault what do I need to do
okay well I should I should graduate
school because that that demonstrates
that what happened at UMass is is
fixable I I can graduate school I can do
it I'm not dumb I can do that okay fine
got to go to school that was it it's
like it checks a box so do it I think it
was Jo will that said to
me his friend had called him and was
going through a difficult time in his
life divorce lost his wife lost his job
Etc and joer said something words to the
effective when you're lost in like a
military context whatever you need to
start moving yes it doesn't necessarily
matter which direction you move in but
you need to start moving in a direction
and that was I was thinking about that
as you said about this idea of like
paralysis by analysis people they might
be at rock bottom but they just don't
know what to do so they just sat in the
same situation certainty in that context
is sometimes better for people than the
uncertainty of what happens if I you
know what if it's the wrong
yeah I mean and also you got to figure
it's sort of like a self perpetuating
problem too where if you let's say
you've hit rock bottom even if you don't
know it and you're like oh I want to fix
my life I want to do something with my
life let's say the kind of generic rock
bottom well let's say you get paralysis
by analysis and and you're not able to
sort of like pick a path and you go
nowhere that only reinforces the idea
that you're oh you screwed up again MH
but you hav't there's just too many
choices and you're allowing Too Many
Factors to be at play here Joo however
he said it is dead on and there's
another way that's talked about in the
military which is uh an 80% solution now
is oftentimes better than a 100%
solution tomorrow and it's all about
like speed over certainty in the
military it applies a lot of times but
that's the way I think people should
generally not always but generally look
at their lives if they haven't quite
built anything yet whether whether
they're at rock bottom or just starting
out like they're young people and they
or whatever age you're at if you just if
you feel like you need to to make a
change like you said the the the pain of
staying the same is is greater than
making a change if you're at that point
you kind of know it think about what
what matters to you whatever it is like
I like to equate it to when like you're
in the shower by yourself and you're
just having unfiltered true thoughts
like ask yourself what do you really
care about like honest to God like
forget what society says you should care
about let's say you really just want to
be famous and that's that's that's the
actual core and you don't even know why
but that's what you want well guess what
listen to that part of you it's not vain
it's a thing that matters to you
similarly if you if you're like I want
to be just Rich great if that's a real
motivation for you like at your core in
the shower it's just you if that's
really what drives you great those are
boxes that must be checked for something
to be worth doing so it's like have your
shower thoughts and be real with
yourself like what do you really
actually care about not what society
says not what you want your family none
of that stuff for me honestly the the
reason the sealed thing really paid I
wanted to Do It ultimately is I wanted
people to say that's John Allen the Navy
SEAL because to me it was like I had
been the black sheep in my family
because of me I had discovered this but
it's like oh his sisters have done this
oh his dad's done this his mom's done
this and then there's John I wanted
something that sort of overrode the
mediocrity and failure and I felt like
what better thing what more honorable
thing and also I wanted to serve that's
another check it's a big goal that's
difficult that's a check but ultimately
it was like I want people to know that I
became a Navy SEAL that mattered to me
and you know what it's it flies in the
face of what Navy SEAL instructors tell
you which is you don't want you
shouldn't do this because you want to be
a Navy SEAL you should do it because you
want to serve the country and like
that's true and what else you going to
tell your students yeah but if you
really want to be real about it you got
to find your real motivation and that
that box must be checked must be checked
yeah so i i p on the must be checked
because once you become the Navy SEAL
yeah and everyone's saying that's John
Allen the Navy
SEAL does your motivation disappear or
does it become something else and it's
really it's I think it's really honest
but also quite unorthodox advice to say
listen if you if you're in the shower
and you're going I just want to be rich
so I can prove these people wrong or
want to be famous prove these people
wrong um it's an orthodox advice to say
to follow that yeah but I have to
say I just completely agree yeah I agree
because sometimes you have to have a
hypothesis
fail you or some kind of idea fail you
for you to scratch the itch and that's
why I was focusing on this idea of
ticking the Box yeah it's going to stay
there yes it is like I don't know if you
can go to therapy or do IAS or something
to get rid of that thing but for me
until you pursue it and have it fail you
or succeed yep it's going to stay there
yeah I mean that ultimately exactly what
you said if that box goes unchecked you
might in your life eventually convince
yourself that you never needed check to
check that box but at some point at some
point in your life when it becomes too
late or you're about to die on your
deathbed you will have regret and I I
can actually speak to a specific
instance in my life which I had checked
a box by this point but I had one that I
hadn't checked I was I was in
Afghanistan in 2014 and we were in this
Alleyway and a grenade came over the
wall and it detonated next to a whole
bunch of us and I nearly bled to death
and I have this moment where I I can't
pull the tourniquets off of my kit that
are rubber banded to my chest for quick
access to stop the bleeding but I was so
weak and in like losing my vision we're
in the middle of this gunfight I
couldn't get him off and I realized as
I'm sitting in this Alleyway in the
middle of this like horrible place in
Afghanistan like like the town was very
kinetic and dangerous and I'm waiting to
either be shot by the enemy who we know
is on the other side of the wall that
could be coming around or I'm going to
bleed to death or there RPGs being fired
blindly in our Direction it's like I'm
about to die 100% I'm actively bleeding
out or I'm going to be shot and all that
was running through my head there was a
couple thoughts there was one that was
kind of funny now which was I was like
hm I wonder if my obituary will say
Jonathan Allen killed an action or John
Allen killed an action so that was going
through my head but I also in addition
to that I had this really acute sadness
that I hadn't started a family yet I
didn't have kids I was married we've
been married for several years and and
my wife and I had s we'd sort of talk
about having kids before that deployment
but we were like oh we'll have time and
I'm sitting there in this alley bleeding
to death or expecting to be shot to
death I'm I'm at the end of my life and
it was like holy [__] I wish I had a
child yes that's horrible for the kid
they lost their dad but like that was a
box for me I wanted a family what was
the first thing I did when I survived
this and got home we started a family
you know so it's like that's sort of an
extreme example but I I do really
believe that a lot of people have boxes
that are going to go unchecked but to
your point also just try to do it and
fail and believe it or not you actually
check the box yeah yeah yeah that's true
that's actually really really true yeah
and
yeah it's so interesting that that um
because I've never actually heard
someone give that kind of advice before
what people say is like find your why
and they often are quite judgmental
about what's motivating you sure so the
only like accepted motivation is
something like I want to serve my
country or I want change the world but
actually most of us are either like
driven or dragged as I say which it
could be yeah like driven is okay you're
very conscious of what's driving you and
you're in control but then being dragged
is the insecurity it's the shame it's
that I you know my siblings are better
than me and I want to say [__] you to my
parents whatever it might be um very
very very interesting it's also even
more interesting that you ended up where
you are today so you you get medically
discharged from the military after the
Afghanistan it was not immediately after
but basically between that and some
mental issues I was having I was pushed
to see a psychologist this is like years
after so 2014 that injury happens I
survive obviously uh and I ended up
getting surgery to sort of like my
shoulder was banged up and I I got fixed
up enough to deploy again um but I was
just not fit to serve physically I was
really struggling um to keep up I had
some issues with my shoulders and my
knees I've strap all on my leg uh but
ultimately I I was recommended to a pych
in the military because they're like
dude you you you are not like a s person
things are not going well for you like
close friends of mine just sort of said
I don't think this is this is working
out and I was very angry I I had like
now I can say it it's like I had very
stereotypical or whatever you want to
call it PTSD like I had not dealt with
the near-death experience in Afghanistan
and sort of how that went and so I I
ended up going for a medical retirement
which was driven in part by the physical
injuries but also by like mentally I
wasn't there so I get I get medically
retired uh in at the end of 2017
and you know it's I never really had a
plan you know it's like I I knew I was
going to get medically retired which
just means like you're going to get out
and there's G to be like this amount of
money you get paid you it's a retirement
it's it's not really enough to to live
on realistically you're going to have to
have a job and uh you know I I I
basically I got out at the end of 2017
and I went on LinkedIn and I'm like I
guess that's where you get job because
that's what I think people do and I was
like on LinkedIn and I wound up randomly
connecting with this guy named Jordan
celik who is he was living in New York
at the time he's this former investment
banker who had just so happened at the
time that I was on LinkedIn doing this
like kind of weird job search that his
best friend was a transitioning fighter
pilot like he was leaving the military
going to the private sector was
struggling with the transition which is
very common in the military making that
jump to the civilian world and Jordan
who's like this very entrepreneurial guy
he was trying to prove to his friend his
friend's name was Austin that like you
must be alone like you're so successful
being a fighter pilot like you're going
to find a job and he was like he was
doing this exercise where he was
reaching out to like random veterans on
LinkedIn and being like hey what are you
doing like with your transition to the
civilian world to prove to Austin that
like you're basically complaining and
you can go find a job you're not a but
he found like one nobody really got back
to him because they didn't know who he
was but I got back to him and I'm like
actually you know what I just got
medically retired I have no idea what
I'm going to do I got kids I'm stressed
I don't know didn't know this guy uh and
so Jordan quickly went from trying to
prove a point to his friend to he was
like oh well hey why don't you like come
to New York and I'll just like introduce
you to some people in my network uh and
out of that was born this this charity
that Jordan and I actually started
called Elite meet that's still around
today it's like a networking event it's
a series of networking events for
transitioning military veterans and
private sector you know hiring managers
to meet and get jobs so I did that for a
little while ironically my job became
running a charity that helped other vets
get jobs funny uh but Jordan instilled
in me he was a big believer in Gary
vaynerchuk's style of social media that
sort of like bombard the internet with
content and be like Allin on content uh
and Jordan he even had a similar sort of
he was similar to Gary ve and and I uh I
I found it like really fascinating the
idea of social media and content
creation because when I was in the
military I didn't even have or I might
have had a YouTube account but I
certainly didn't post on it didn't have
social media but I I with Jordan we
began using social media content to
drive donations for this charity we're
running together uh but at some point I
wanted to do more like with social media
I was doing storytelling but narrative
storytelling like written out stories
about military stuff to try to get
generate donations and I was like yeah I
want to I want to do something for
myself with social media like build a
brand for myself and I I I committed a
cardinal sin one that I was very aware
of so this is self-awareness but doing
it anyways um in the the SEAL Teams and
really I think in Special Operations
generally despite what you see in terms
of books written and like movies made
about seals and you can Google seals and
there's like 78 examples of seals that
are publicly talk publicly talking about
being Navy
Seals there is like this code of conduct
amongst the active duty community that
you don't talk about being a seal that's
not what you can say you are a seal no
one's telling you you literally have to
lie about it but being a seal is not
something that's yours being a seal is
you were allowed to enter a community of
people that were like fighting for a
common goal together struggling bleeding
dying together like the the the strength
of the brand of seal the seal brand is
built literally on people dying and so
you can't then leave the military and
say hey look at me I was a Navy SEAL
because that's for personal gain you
can't do that it's sort of a gray area I
get it yeah I began posting about being
I was the
quintessential look at this guy Mr Navy
SEAL uh at first it wasn't that way it
wasn't like one day I was like guess
what guys I'm a Navy SEAL but it it
began as like a oh I'm going to just
like have my own accounts and sort of
tell stories about my experience as a
seal to push people towards Elite meet
but then quickly as these began to
succeed not really but kind of they got
like a thousand likes here or there I
was like wow that's that's pretty cool
and I like began leaning a little more
and more until finally I was like
fullsend like the guy that you're not
supposed to be this is like in 2018 2019
and dude I got disowned by the Navy SEAL
Community I mean like hard give me
specifics when you say disign uh I could
pull up DMS uh from Instagram no I so at
first did not catch a whole lot of
public at first I think I was doing it
and people sort of were like well he's
doing this charity Elite meet that's
helping seals it's helping vets but
gradually as I sort of drifted farther
and farther away from that into just
like John the Navy SEAL mind you I'm not
giving up anything sensitive it isn't
like I'm talking about stuff that's like
problematic it's really just doing some
of this you know pumping my chest I
began receiving just some of the most
painful messages I've ever gotten in my
life it's it's it's different than
getting hate you know as Mr Ballin on
the internet I certainly get hate from
time to time but it's different because
they don't know me it's like they see
somebody on the internet doing something
they don't agree with or like and so
they they they speak their opinion I'm
sure you're familiar but it's not
personal it might feel personal at first
but you get used to it this was actual
seals who I knew who wanted me to know
exactly who was sending this message
like writing me messages to be like hey
I used to think of you this way and now
I think of you this way with like
detailed explanations of and talking
about how at the team like we all talk
about how much you [__] suck
basically and like I would go I lived in
Virginia beach at the time which is
where uh the team Seal Team Seal Team 2
that's where I was at it's it's a big
town but it's where like a huge
concentration of seals were and during
this time I would like go out to like
the grocery store and I would see people
that I know these are not I think that
guy could be a seal it's like oh no I
served with him I know exactly who that
is and they like mean mug me and my
family at the grocery store or the gym
because remember this is not like a
normal group of people this is
like a group of highly trained killers
of like operators people that like go to
war they're not afraid of conflict and I
have done something that in many ways
has like tarnished their brand not their
brand not have they look at tarnish the
Brotherhood it it's like I'm being
selfish and I was revive they hated me I
got I got regularly two to three
messages email Instagram wherever I I I
get I get phone calls voice messages of
people leaving me just the most deep
cutting personal like I this is how I
know you and this is what's being said
about you and this is how I feel about
you it was horrible but luckily
uh I had already had the experience in
my life CS gas thing the coming home
from college thing of fairly quickly
realizing that no matter how I justify
this no matter how I justify why I
drifted into this Arena ultimately I
knew what was going I knew the line and
I knew when I crossed the line of being
no matter what the public thinks about
sealed content that you see on the on
the internet I knew amongst the huge
majority of people that will never be
public about their service the active
duty guys and and the retired guys I had
crossed a line for them and I was not
dumb I I I would have been just as upset
if I was them still active looking at a
guy like me but instead of like getting
mad at anybody or looking for
Retribution or trying to justify it uh I
deleted it all at some point I remember
there was a night I'm like sitting on my
couch and I got a message from somebody
that I would have said was one of my
very close friends and it just said you
suck that's all it said but it sounds
stupid but this is somebody who's on
Team Six this is somebody who is I
specifically trained with and was like
very close with like his wife and my
wife were close and like I know what the
context of this message is it's way more
than you suck it's we're not the same
anymore like you're different and I look
down on you and I was like I can't do
this there's there is no amount of
success that I could possibly achieve
doing the Navy SEAL content stuff that
would be worth what I'm going through
right now and so instead of being like
I'm going to just act like they didn't
happen I just removed all the content
save for a couple of very small specific
things and I hadn't lost the itch for
making content but it was like I can't
do anything with regards to being a seal
because that's not worth it to me and I
don't want to do it I felt wrong and
after trying things that never worked
like sketch comedy and like following
trends at one point I was my lowest my
lowest moment my my worst one was I uh
there was a trend on Tik Tok briefly
where people would tell like sort of
weirdly traumatic stories not traumatic
but like intense stories but with
autotune they'd use the feature in Tik
Tok that was autotune and they'd like
sort of sing it as autotune but it would
be like about the time they got like
mugged and so like it's the the contrast
is so extreme it's sort of
interesting I did something like that
and I made it and I was like I cannot
post this this is like the worst thing
I've ever made uh but nothing worked and
I I remember thinking like okay you know
I I I don't have a clue what I could do
that would be interesting um and
actually I remember I had these two
documents in my computer this is again
post deleting everything I'm like trying
to make it on social media with
something different I had this one
document that was like ideas for Content
that were not seal related that were
like totally divorced from that the
sketch comedy the autot tune whatever it
was and I I literally had exhausted all
of them but I had this other document
that for I didn't even know why I had
separated this topic but it was all I
wrote on it was deat laav P so
personally I am interested in the
strange dark and mysterious the tagline
that's become the Mr Ballin thing
basically Unsolved Mysteries but not
like don't think True Crime necessarily
think like World level Mysteries like
what's out there is there life out there
like why is this portion of Antarctica
blacked out out on Google Earth like the
Deep like scintillating stuff that no
one really has an answer to I I've
always been drawn to that stuff and I uh
there's a really famous mystery called
the diat laav pass and it's about these
hikers in the 50s these nine really
experienced hikers uh who are going for
their what's called their level three
mountaineering test which sounds sort of
like run-of-the-mill but in fact in in
Soviet Russia in the 1950s this was like
Master Mountaineer nobody had level
three this is like the top if you did
this you're like the best climbers in
the country if not potentially the world
this is a big deal and the way you pass
your level three is you and the people
taking it with you there was nine of
them you have to map out this route
through this really rugged part of
whatever Mountain you're going to use
they use the EUR all mountains so big
snow swept like huge icy mountains and
you map out this course that like checks
the boxes of difficulty and you you're
effectively timed you have to start on a
particular day in time and they have
people set up along the way the
scheduled checkpoints if you will and so
they brought cameras with them this
group this is again 1952 I think it was
and so this these young nine hikers who
were like so excited to do this test no
one stressed they're so pumped there's a
couple of couples in there they set off
on this this journey and I think they
reached the first checkpoint I forget
what it is but they didn't make it to
whatever second checkpoint or whatever
it was and there was a protocol for the
people who were sort of sponsoring this
TCH that were part of the checkpoints
that knew this they knew what was going
on where if they missed a checkpoint
there's like this big search that goes
out to make sure they're okay even
though the even though there's some
expectation that they might not make a
checkpoint by like a day because it's a
difficult test but the protocol is like
really extreme as soon as they go
missing it's like the Army gets involved
and they go and follow the route to find
the hikers so they missed the checkpoint
this protocol is enacted and not only
are there pictures that we will get from
the hikers but there was cameras that
came with the search crew they they
follow the trail that they're supposed
to be on this is again there's no trees
it's just like the tundra it's like ice
and snow and mountains and they come
across this mountain off in the distance
and they see on the Windswept Side of
the Mountain basically halfway up are
these tents that are just these like
canvas tents you barely see them but
they're they're situated right in the
middle of the of the slope which is like
strategically one of the worst places
you can place these tents so immediately
they're thinking one it has to be the
hikers because who else is out here
right now but two why in the world with
these incredibly talented hikers or
Mountaineers why would they ever pitch
their tent there this is the most
hazardous part the wind can whip you off
you either go to the top and over or you
stay to the bottom let's say you beun
hiking up that mountain you get halfway
and you're like I can't make it you
better go back down and make T and make
your Camp down there so they see this
these tents they're in the wrong spot
they go up to the tents and the hikers
aren't there they're not in there
there's pictures of this too the tents
inside had stacks of clothing neatly
folded and and placed in the corners
like as if they hadn't they left their
clothes behind and the and the tents
themselves were cut open like with a
knife but somehow they deduced that they
had been cut open but from the inside so
presumably one or multiple of the
Mountaineers chose to cut open these
tents in like negative 50 degree weather
and then there were all these prints in
the snow that led down the mountain and
some of the prins were bare feet some
had one shoe and one Barefoot and it's
all nine of the hikers they they spotted
these Prince and they follow the prince
down the hill or the mountain it's a big
space and they find this little crops of
trees there's only a few few areas in
the Euro mountains in this part of the
Euro mountains that have trees and
there's this little group of trees and
when they get to the trees they find
three of the hikers and they're all
deceased and there's one who's basically
almost naked kind of wrapped up on the
ground there's pictures of this uh
there's one who I believe was draped
over one of the branches up in one of
the trees and then another one that was
also on the ground as well and there's
these deep scratch marks in the tree
like gouges on the tree as if some
animal had been scratching at this tree
and all three of these hikers are
deceased and they there's it looks like
exposure but they're not really wearing
the right clothing or they're missing
pieces of clothing but they're all
deceased there's more footprints that
lead away from those three about a mile
kind of back in the direction the search
party had come from and there's this big
snow drift that created sort of like a
snow cave underneath it and the
footprints lead into the snow cave cave
where the other six hikers were and
they're all deceased as well except in
there the hikers had seemingly exchanged
clothing and they know this because the
women were wearing men's clothing and
vice versa some of their clothes had
Trace levels of radiation and some of
them had parts of their face removed it
looked like lips nose ears it almost
looked like like surgical Precision
removal they're all deceased and uh one
of the injuries there was a person in
there who their chest had basically been
caved in and it was deduced that the Imp
it would have taken there was no there's
no lacerations just their chest was
caped in the impact would have been
equivalent to like a speeding car
smashing into at full speed but there's
no sign of anything that could have done
this damage and they're all deceased and
so the Soviet government they launched
an investigation and during this
investigation they discover that there
was a huge military exercise a Russian
military exercise taking place in the
eural mountains who had no idea about
these hikers they have no clue that the
level mountaineering test is going on
that's not even on their radar and
they're you know 15 20 miles away and
one of their senior commanders on the
same night that it's believed the hikers
all died and whatever happened to them
happened he began noticing all these
strange lights in the sky over the Ural
Mountains going up and down and moving
all around to the point where he
actually thought it was another country
a foreign country are they invading us
and he literally thought it was like an
invasion of Russia and he sent out
messages to say hey what's happening
over there having no idea that he was
pointing to the one spot
where these hikers were so during this
investigation they discover that
families are clamoring for information
about their lost loved ones no nobody
has any idea what what's going on and
suddenly the Soviet government says up
we're going to shut this investigation
down all we know is that the nine hikers
who died died from an unknown unnatural
Force
sealed and to date even though there was
actually a recent investig a
reinvestigation done in
2020 uh it's remained like one of the
great Unsolved Mysteries in part because
it's got this like oh the the Russian
government sealed it and there's more
information what do they mean unknown uh
unnatural Force but there's pictures of
the tent of the bodies of all this stuff
and so I uh I always thought that was a
fascinating story and I love stories
like that and I I was at this water park
in Pennsylvania with my family indoor
water park and at this point I've
exhausted the one list you know
nothing's worked on social media this
new thing Tik Tok had sort of begun to
happen uh I didn't really even know what
it was but I was like maybe I'll try
posting on there you know because it's a
it's a new platform maybe that'll work
and I was like but I bet I I want to try
something else you know because these
haven't these ideas haven't worked and
so like in my hotel room I tell my wife
and three kids like go down the water
park I'll meet you down there in a
minute and I just pull out the phone and
I do a 60-second rendition of that and I
was like hey you know at the end of this
you're going to Google you're going to
Google two words and I tell this brief
story about this this crazy mystery and
I'm like that's called the deat laav
pass mystery that's the name of the P
they were in when they were found and I
post this video to my account that has
no followers it's like the Mr Ballin
account there's a story behind that but
it's it's a nothing account post it and
really no expectation that this is going
to amount to anything I leave my phone
in the room because I'm going down to
the water park I can't waterproof my
phone I'll be with my kids and when I
came back up a few hours later and I
picked up my phone I couldn't even get
it to turn on like it was like I was
like oh is it all is it power dead and I
finally get it on and it's just like
like notifications like mad from this
video there's over 5 million views on
this video mind you everything I've ever
posted collectively has maybe been like
a 100,000 views so this is like massive
virality but it was utterly divorced
from seal stuff this is like pure I
think this is fascinating and I love
telling stories and that wasn't like oh
boy here's a business opportunity it was
more like oh my God this is so cool I'm
going to tell more stories like that cuz
this is what I like and I just began
making story after story that sort of
fell in line with that and the and it
happened to fall at literally the start
of the pandemic so it's like suddenly
everybody is not only on their phones
but they're on Tik Tok and everybody on
Tik Tok is like mostly kids dancing and
also me telling stories with a flannel
and backwards hat and so the account
just blew up like mad I transitioned to
YouTube and I I've just been telling
stories ever since so first and foremost
I have to ask what do you think happened
to those hikers
man I don't know I don't know so the
they reopened the investigation like I
said in 2020 uh it I I don't claim this
to be true but I think it might have
been in part because of the viral the
virality of that that video suddenly
there's this newfound interest of people
Googling that the outlaw pass um and
they concluded that there was an ice
slab that broke off and killed them but
it's like how does that account for like
the clothes being exchanged the the
potential radioactive nature of their
clothes like what the the the military
guys Sol with the lights there's too
many things that don't get explained um
it is true that like when you become
hypothermic when you when you become
truly hypothermic and you're nearing
like the end basically you're about to
die from exposure uh it's you you become
warm to the point where you're hot you
actually take your clothes off yeah
that's a well documented thing so you
could say okay so they're they're they
they've pitched a terrible place on the
on the mountain they're they're being
exposed to the elements they're
basically freezing maybe they did maybe
as skilled as they were they weren't
really prepared for the weather and so
they became hypothermic and let's say
maybe an avalanche or an ice slab did
come down and maybe they got hit by the
ice slab and now they're hypothermic
they're taking their clothes off but
it's like okay what are all the marks in
the tree you know why are why are their
clothes radioactive what did the
government mean when they said an
unknown unnatural Forest back in the
1950s what were the lights seen by the
the military guy there's too many
unanswered questions so I uh admittedly
am a huge skeptic and if anything doing
uh creating this content has only made
me more skeptical because there's so
much stuff that gets put out that's not
true and it's just like totally made up
but this remains one of those stories
that just sort of makes you wonder like
is it possible there's stuff out there
that we don't necessarily understand
like Supernatural forces or you know
extraterrestrials like I'd say this is a
a story that certainly opens the
possibility but I also would be
perfectly fine to hear that actually
turns out here's all the things that
happened that makes that completely
reasonable maybe there was a a leak of
some kind that like leaked out radiation
or who knows what so I'm open to it but
I think it's it's one of the few cases
that that seems like could make a case
for
paranormal and my next question is as
you reflect on the Journey of your life
yeah from from the basement to the seals
to then producing the seals content
getting disowned from your seals
Brotherhood because of that then
stumbling across this Tik Tok thing yeah
then YouTube and everything else that's
happened when you look back and go like
how can I give anybody advice on how to
stumble into their thing based on the
actions the intentional actions that I
took that brought me here so one of the
things that my wife and I often find
ourselves saying uh is like wow like we
the timing on things is just amazing we
are so lucky with timing and I'll give
you a couple examples so when I was
getting medically retired from the
military there was a time where I
actually was going to be pushed out like
actually cut from the military and it
was going to be like a year earlier than
when I actually did and so it was like
hey you're going to get medically
retired and it's happening tomorrow and
I didn't have a I didn't have a job
lined up I didn't have anything lined up
and that's actually when I began
reaching out and I met Jordan and it was
like really quickly we we came up with
this Elite meet thing but then after the
elite meet thing I actually had some
legs and we're getting donations in
we're putting these these cool events on
and I have like this feeble little
salary coming in from it plus my
retirement I'm like okay I can keep I
can keep things afloat for a little
while until I figure out the next thing
right as that happened so out of
necessity i' I've I've found a way to to
make an income within like a month of
needing to have an income the Navy says
actually we're going to extend your
contract for an extra I think it was
eight months or something and so
suddenly I had the uh the opportunity
with Jordan and Elite meet but also got
eight more months or 10 months six I
forget what it was it was it was less
than a year but it was a lot more time
in the Navy but I really didn't have to
do much in the Navy I I was already on
the medical discharge way I B I had to
go to work and like either like a couple
hours a week it was not hard but it
meant I got paid through the Navy and so
it allowed me really to not worry about
pulling money from Elite meat and
pulling a salary I can just grow Elite
meat with Jordan and get paid by the
Navy it's like the Navy is incubating
Elite meat but Elite meat wouldn't have
existed if I didn't have that oh my God
I'm getting out in a month I have to do
something about it and so it feels like
oh the timing so perfect like I started
Elite meet with Jordan and then I was
granted this extra time with the Navy it
fostered the this company it incubated
this company but no I've sort of always
looked at the looked at my life as being
like man there just such amazing timing
on things like I just feel like we're so
blessed with the timing like when like
the the Tik Tok thing like I just so
happen to to like be making this video
when suddenly everybody's on Tik Tok at
the beginning of the pandemic yeah
that's insane timing for sure and I'm
not denying that that's a timing thing
but also I'm somebody that is perfectly
willing to take a chance and do
something like I don't I don't get stuck
on is is this a good idea or not it's
like I'm just going to try this thing
and it's the people that are sort of
willing to quickly check a box and do
this thing that will be in a position to
where timing can benefit you if you're
constantly like ah I'm thinking about it
I'm thinking things are going to pass
you by and so I I look I forget what the
question was but essentially the the
advice I would give is like really it's
sort of what Joo said it's this idea of
like you just got to start moving
because it's
amazing what doors begin to open up for
you if if you're already on the move if
you're stationary they don't open it's
interesting because as you were talking
about timing I was thinking that's not
what I think the answer is I was
thinking that timing is one of those
things you you see in hindsight and go
gosh wasn't that perfect timing but for
it to be perfect timing you need to be
the kind of guy who's willing to send
their kids down to the pool with your
wife and make a Tik Tok video on a
platform you know very little about yeah
doing something you've never done before
right and it's actually in that moment
that I think your that's your like
moment of Brilliance that's when your
life pivots because genuinely 99.9% of
people would not be making a video on a
platform they don't know much about on a
subject that they've never made it a
video about before and your story is
like riddled with those moments where
like even responding to the guy on
LinkedIn you said most people didn't
reply that's right but I responded and
then you went and met him in New York or
something and that c so in in hindsight
yes it looks like timing but actually
it's that you were in moments where you
were lost you got moving you did
something you had a bias towards action
yeah and failure is feedback feedback is
knowledge knowledge is power so you it
was it's interesting because when you're
talking about like your bias of just
like do something aim at something what
what it appears is happening there is
even if the thing fails like some of the
things you tried failed at least you're
getting feedback true and then the
feedbacks informing what you do next
like you said I did the um the seals
thing on LinkedIn you learned some stuff
about social media there okay it didn't
work out how you wish but you took that
into the next test yeah and
um and that's really I think when looked
at your story the defining thing is
these just a willingness to in fact i'
be honest a willingness to embarrass
yourself and be bad at something you
know it's funny you say that because uh
I I literally have like sort of a mantra
that I've developed that I can't claim
is something I came up with but I
definitely find myself living by it now
um and that is uh it's do things that
scare you and I'll quantify that or
qualify that so actually Will Smith the
actor has this great thing he does he
goes on Oprah I think it was Oprah or
some talk show and he talks about his
experience skydiving and uh you know
it's it's it's this unbelievable like
monologue this impromptu monologue he
gives but he basically is like you know
my my family was like yeah or my buddies
like we're gonna go skydiving tomorrow
and it was like oh yeah that'll be so
crazy we'll go skydiving tomorrow but
he's like we're not gonna really do that
and then it's like the next morning we
get up and he's like yeah let's go get
breakfast guys like no no we're going to
go skydiving like let's go let's go
skydiving and he's like wait really
doing that and they're like yeah and
he's like oh my God I I don't want to go
skydiving I thought we were just like
saying it last night and he winds up you
know going with his buddies to the
actual you know Airfield and they're
like signing the paperwork and he's like
guys are we really doing this I I don't
want to do this come on it's not so bad
and so before long he's like in the
plane up in the air attached to the
instructor and he's like they open the
door up and they're like all right it's
your turn and he's like I'm sitting on
the edge and I'm having like this
full-blown crisis like I don't want to
jump I'm terrified of jumping and the
instructor is like all right will we're
going to go on three one jumps
really and he was like the second I left
the plane fear was gone yeah and it was
just this exhilarating experience of
soaring through the air of skydiving and
he was like when I landed it he's like I
suddenly understood that there's always
been this this aspect in my life that
I've sort of seen in other ways in my
life but it's the best things in life
this is Will Smith not me best things in
life are on the are on the other side of
fear and so what I've taken that as you
know like uh becoming a Navy SEAL for
example when I decided to do it like
there's a huge amount of fear and and
not so much fear of failure it's like
just it's fear of like not stacking up
like when I got there like you're I was
so intimidated by the people around me
but I knew if I could just like not let
the fear overwhelm me that the reward on
the back end would be so high you know
or or even take you know I I just did a
live we did a live tour with 15 shows I
actually am terrified of public speaking
I've had instances in my life where I
have Frozen up publicly giving a speech
and literally had to put the microphone
down and leave I've had that experience
and I'm volunteering to do a tour with
thousands of people but it's the way I
look at it is like the things that you
don't want to do you'll be indifferent
to the things that you do want to do
you'll typically have a if it's a if
it's a big enough thing the best things
in life so to speak
you will have element of a fear response
to it now of if you're scared to go down
the basement because you hear an
intruder breaking in listen to yourself
don't go down in the basement when it
comes to like goal setting kind of going
back to that that idea of shower
thoughts right everybody has some that
they just really want to do and it's not
even necessarily motivated by one
particular thing maybe it's some action
they want to take maybe it's talking to
a friend that they've blown off for 10
years or or it's public speaking or
whatever it is but they know even if
they don't admit to it deep down they
know fear is the thing keeping them from
doing it it's fear of embarrassment it's
fear of failure it's a fear of all the
things that make us human it's the very
select number of people in this life
that are still able to say I'm going to
still do that thing that scares the [__]
out of me that have the best and most
fulfilling lives not always but they
often do and like that's why we look at
like Will Smith for example that dude
very likely just because I'm I'm
referencing him he's probably had to do
things that were so uncomfortable in his
life to be an actor at his level is like
hey perform in front of everybody right
now and don't screw it up you know it's
like pressure and performance it's like
that dude has faced fears his whole life
yeah he's using skydiving as an example
but his life is very likely a product of
a guy who faces fears but it's the fear
knowing that if I do this there's
something big on the other side and so I
preach to my children and I try to live
this idea of do things that scare you
and literally the live tour that we just
did was was it I I was having like an
existential crisis before we began but
the second I took the stage it was like
oh this is great so it goes back to what
you were saying about when will jumped
out of the plane yeah the all the fear
was there before he jumped oh yes and
just like you walking up out on that
stage the fear you're tormented before
Oh yes I always find before
significantly harder in every way oh
yeah before before everything that I've
done in my life is the worst part once
you get into it it's you're confronting
reality which isn't always as bad but
yes before is horrible and also when
you're talking I was thinking you know
it's
really either way you're making a
decision in those moments like when you
thinking about your life tour the
decision is do I accept the unchecked
box or do I accept this mental torment
that I'm going to inflict upon myself
that's very
true and I think yeah when they talk to
people on their Death Beds and stuff the
worst thing is the unchecked Box not the
it's got to be not that I walked out and
put the mic down and walked off yeah
like I don't look I look back at the
fact that I and I was in San Francisco
at a dinner where I literally froze and
put the mic down and walked off I looked
at that as a catalyst for why I was so
scared to do public speaking this time
and it ultimately pushed me to do it I
don't regret San Francisco I'm glad it
happened but only because I faced it
later on I would be so embarrassed I
would I would Harbor like my pain
forever if I never try it again but yeah
it's like the you don't regret the
failure you regret not trying how do
people misunderstand you cuz they like
you they see you on a screen and they
consume a certain type of content you
make they probably don't know the full
context of your life but how do you
think people have misunderstood you oh
good
question um I would say and this is not
even to try to Curry you know favor with
my you know former seal Brethren but I
think that even when I was posting and
this is really just specifically to the
people that really disown me who still
very likely do you you know my intention
when I was posting the the seal stuff
before Mr ball and thing happened it was
never like I'm so great it was more like
I want to do something with my life and
this feels like an opportunity and I
know it's sort of like questionable but
when you're no longer in that insulated
team room when you're in the Wolfpack so
to speak it's easy to view the rest of
your life as being oh it'll I become a
seal I can do anything I want but like
when you're cast out or when you leave
and you're by yourself and you got to
like figure out your new life it's it's
really difficult to imagine how you're
going to do that without leveraging you
know the biggest thing you've ever done
and so I think that the one definite
specific thing is I never made that
content because I literally believed I'm
the special guy and like everybody
better look at me as like Mr Navy SEAL I
was very aware of the fact that I was a
junior seal relative to the other people
that had served and like my experience
was minimal compared to others um so I
think that some people think that I
actually somehow believe that I'm like
I'm a superhero and I didn't then and I
don't know uh I'd say now sort of the Mr
ball ins side of things there's like a
practical thing which
is the as the sort of Mr Ballin thing
has grown to where it is now to where
it's like a it's a pretty recognizable
thing in in the genre of the strange
dark and
mysterious um it's been really really
challenging for me personally to balance
my my life with my wife and my three
kids kids who I adore and sort of like
you know responsibilities with content I
mean we have a recording schedule we
have things that I sort of have pledged
to do and as you know with content
creation there's not really an end you
just sort of keep doing it I think that
by no means am I saying like oh this job
is so hard people better sympathize with
me hardly like I understand the
privilege but at the same time like I
started making content and it was like
an outpouring of content constantly I
was making five videos a week sometimes
times that are like 25 minutes each by
myself like shooting it editing it
everything it was like it would take me
about 26 hours or so per video over
seven days so it's like yeah I really
wasn't sleeping I became like a raging
alcoholic I became like horribly
overweight because it was like
everything got pushed aside to make
videos and then as I realized that like
doing content at that ferish rate was
really taking a toll on my physical
health my mental health um and
definitely my relationship with my wife
and kids I began to sort of make an
exchange it was like I I'm going to do
less content for more time with my
family and loads of people got that it
isn't like the masses were like dude
you're you're a jerk but I think what's
happened now and it's sort of a product
of success is we've reached a point not
just me but like I we have a team that's
pretty sizable we have an amazing studio
we have publishing division we have this
we have that like we've reached a point
where I think people view me as like
this corporate guy guy out to get money
when in reality like you were talking
before the show like you're like it's
weird people say you're so successful
when I don't even know what I'm doing
like I'm still very much the guy that
randomly made a video that went viral on
Tik Tok and so one of the harder things
for me has been as the audience grows
which I'm happy for it's like you really
have to understand that there there are
people that don't like me anymore like
have taken an issue with me and it's
always this idea that like I'm somehow
like this money grubbing like corporate
guy that is only in it to make money
when in reality like as you probably
seen with this interview dude my default
is I love telling stories I love this
genre I always have and like I also I I
kind of like being My Own Boss to a
degree so it's like it checks a lot of
boxes for me do you ever worry that
you've got your priorities
wrong well when I say that I really mean
um because when you're a create content
creator like we both are yeah um like
you say it's you're constant it's
constant it's constant it's constant and
there's there's no light at the end of
the tunnel in terms of there's not like
you get off this train at some point if
you get off you fail effec that is how
it works so how do you think because if
I said to you you're going to be doing
this forever like you're going to be
doing what you do now for the next 30
Years you know I think that I've
actually probably reached a point in my
life as a content creator where maybe I
haven't come to it exactly the way
you've just laid it out but
it's I'm definitely not currently in
this for money if anything I'm in it for
I get a lot of enjoyment out of
literally telling stories I mentioned to
you pre-show that doing the live tour
was so much fun because I got to
actually interact with these people that
show up as numbers on my YouTube videos
but they're real people and it's like it
was so much fun like fulfilling for me I
would have I literally told Nick our my
CEO and the man and my manager before
the tour started like I would have I
would have paid to do the tour and now
especially I would have paid money to
have that experience to put those shows
on but yeah like looking ahead it's like
I've sort of reached a point which
is like I was never really in this for
for fame or money or I definitely was in
it for like the idea of being successful
no doubt I want to be successful and
things come with that that are in in the
money and fame in the app but like I
ultimately just I'm a guy that just like
tries new stuff I've done lots of new
things I sort of re invented myself
several times over but I do really well
when I just sort of have a new goal and
I I thrive in that environment and like
for me like when the Mr Ballin thing
started it was not how much money can we
make or how successful or how big of a
business can we make it was like can I
make another video that people like can
I keep doing that and that became the
goal can I repeat interest in the videos
could you see yourself ever
stopping yes and no for sure because I
think that I'm also capable of saying
and now I'm I'm good I'm going to go do
this completely new thing with my family
and ride off into the sunset you think
you're capable of that saying that I do
actually how many subscribers have you
got total it's like I mean your main
Channel's got almost what 10 million
it's about 10 I think that if you if I
think we've done the math and we looked
at all areas all platforms including
podcast it's probably somewhere around
20 to 25 million like 20 25 million
subscribers you you would be okay with
just walking away and saying could you
see that reality in the future
yeah is there anything that it would
take for you to get there is it like
would you
need yeah is there anything any Catalyst
you think you know actually it's funny
to bring this up because I I've sort of
mentioned the the live tour a couple
times uh if if I had to be honest about
my deeply internalized unchecked box
from the time I became an adult well
from the time I like joined the military
it was I always just had this interest
in giving a big public talk for no other
reason than to Simply conquer that
moment uh my dad is an incredible
speaker uh he's done some pretty big
talks and I've I've seen him speak and
he's so good and I uh I've always known
that I was I have a I'm a good speaker I
can tell stories this is something well
before Mr Ballin um but I I I viewed it
as something that was so terrifying that
I would I would never actually do it I
was the guy that had that thought and
was like I'll live with an unchecked box
and I I would tell myself it's because I
don't don't really have the content to
deliver a talk I I have the ability but
no content and that was my excuse but
then the Mr Ballin things H the Mr
Ballin thing sort of takes off and
suddenly it's like oh you have the
audience you have the content you have
all this stuff it is now a decision are
you going to do it or not and I over the
last couple years have like really
mentally tortured myself to to work
myself up to be like I'm not only going
to do the live stuff but I'm going to do
a whole tour like it's and I told you
before before the show that I wanted
limited production value a part of that
was because I wanted it to be me with a
spotlight on me with a microphone to
make it as as intense as it could
possibly be because I felt like if I
didn't start there i' I'd be worried I
didn't fulfill the thing I've always
wanted to do which is like be the guy
with the mic and and Captivate people
and so I did that I feel like I I
genuinely accomplished this thing that I
really didn't think I would ever
actually do because fear was was too
much I wasn't able to get to get past it
but as a result coming back from that
tour and this is going to sound so like
egotistical but it's like we come back
from tour and we have this the graphic
novel we released New York Times
bestselling graphic novel like it's
beautiful I'm so proud of that book you
know the tour was like statistically
financially whatever you want to call it
huge success you know the the YouTube
channel the podcast everything's going
great but I suddenly had no more
genuinely deep-seated unchecked boxes I
don't the only thing I have is like a
real desire to to be a good dad but it
hasn't there's not a specific way to
quantify that like but by doing the live
thing which was so in the back of my
mind now that it's been checked I could
do 50 more Live tours and it would never
be the same as the first one like I I
could right now they said hey there's
7,000 people out there go tell a story
impromptu I could do that right now it
wouldn't be it' be stressful as hell but
I'd do it I don't have and this this is
again not meant to be egotistical I
don't have a goal anymore I've now
reached a point where
in the only other thing that I wanted to
do was pitch for the Boston Red Sox and
I think that ship is sailed that'd be
the one thing I'm not to be able to do
but I don't really have like the the big
audacious goal I'm sure I'll find one
I'm looking for one um but I've sort of
reached a point where like I adore the
storytelling aspect of Storytelling I
just do I'm doing it right now um but I
also adore my family and my kids and I
and I want to have a full life there and
and by the way I definitely have a good
balance right now but to your point
could I do this for 30 more years the
answer is no I could do this for a time
and I'll put all of my energy into it
and when when when people hear my fans
when I say like I genuinely care about
what you think I'm in the comments I
read rdit I read painful things unre it
I read all this stuff it's because I
genuinely care because this was never
about building a business that's a
product of the thing that I love to do
it's a product of telling stories and
and loving to do that but yeah I don't
have I don't have the Deep unchecked box
I hope to find one but right now it's
like I feel like I'm just sort of doing
stuff and I need to find the thing and I
don't have it I'm I'm so fortunate so
blessed and I love my life I love that
but I don't have I've done the the Box
checking and I and I don't know what's
next everybody needs a an uncheck box
don't I I feel like you do it keeps you
moving keeps you like thinking about
it's like purpose and meaning isn't it
it's like a there was that that horrible
disaster with the The Little Submarine
that imploded horrible thing
and I was reading about it and like the
people that that go on these deep sea
excursions are typically like
billionaires it's people that literally
have every resource known toand you can
do basically anything you want within
reason and it's like they can't figure
out what to do now because everything
like to us if it's like hey do do you
want to go buy a hundred million doll
yacht today like we can't do that like I
can't I can't go buy aund maybe you
can't I I can't buy $100 million but
it's like
imagine being we it's very difficult to
do this I'm sure billionaires could tell
us if you could buy anything it's like
suddenly everything loses its value at
least the things you can buy it's only
valuable to us because we can't have it
you know it's like I can get this nice
of a car but I know I can't get a
McLaren yeah but that's what makes this
one special because I can't afford this
one but it's like the billionaires it's
like oh well all I can do is like
adrenaline now because it's money
doesn't put a so it's it's I've sort of
reached a point not b millionaire status
even close but it's like it's hard to to
figure out what I even want to do
besides knowing Wife and Kids is like a
really big thing for me uh it stems
literally from nearly dying in
Afghanistan like really cherishing the
fact that I have a family um but it's
like I also cherish what I have here
with ball and Studios I just I'm waiting
for the next big sort of unchecked box
to to appear what's your journey like
been with your own mental health because
you talked about PTSD um you talked
about
becoming a bit of an alcoholic as well
at one point what's that Journey been
like what's what's that sort of overlaid
across your story yeah I uh I've really
struggled with my mental health uh in
particular kind of like in the from
military service was a big part of it
I when I was medically retired so 2014 I
get hurt in Afghanistan I really didn't
I thought I dealt with it because you
have to go see a therapist and stuff
post deployments you go you go speak to
somebody but I sort of was just sort of
playing the game to get through it cuz I
just wanted to deploy again and be a
part of the team again um it wasn't
until later on that I actually so I I
deployed a second time and I went to to
South America um and I remember not
giving much thought to the deployment
before I got there I remember thinking
like compared to going to Afghanistan
we're going to South America to like sit
in a in like a nice house literally in a
beautiful part of South America and like
train
Peruvian military forces like it's not a
combat deployment this is like you're
deploying and you're living there but
you're just sort of like a teacher
that's the gist and and that's that's an
amazing thing to do but it's definitely
not combat but as a result I really
didn't like mentally prepare myself for
what it would be like to be in Peru and
if you don't know this like Peru is a
totally Spanish-speaking country it's
very at least where we were there was
very little English like very very
little and so I remember I I I had to go
late to Peru so my team had gone the the
group of us that was deploying there
they went early to Peru and I went like
a week later and it meant that I had to
fly into the airport in Peru by myself
and I had to like navigate the airport
and and and I I speak a little Spanish
like barely conversational and I didn't
take it seriously at all they gave us
Spanish coures I blew it off and I
remember I got to Peru and it was like
oh my God like as soon as I landed and I
look around and no one speaks English
I'm trying to figure out where to go
everything's in Spanish I can't find my
ride my ride by the way is a local who
speaks Spanish doesn't know what I look
like and it was and and my bag got stuck
and they were trying to figure out what
was in my bag but I don't speak their it
was so stressful and then I finally get
in the vehicle to get brought to our our
house we were at but to get there it
required driving through like a true
like slum like a very very unsafe place
and I remember thinking like I am in a
totally foreign country I'm so far from
my family and I'm going to be here for 6
months which is not long by you know
deployment standards that's that's a
long time to be away and it was like I
didn't put any thought into this I can't
believe I'm going to be here it like I
had suddenly I felt like I was in
Afghanistan again a little bit I
struggled so so bad on that deployment
with just being sane like I was so
miserable there there was like to the
point where I was borderline having
delusions I was so depressed I can't
even describe it I had this recurring
dream where I'd be lying on my bed and
and it's also it's always moist in Peru
like it's everything's wet like no
matter what like your your sheets are
wet your clothes are wet it's like a
very humid environment and I'm like
laying in my bed I don't have a fan it's
like humid in this crappy little room
and outside it you just hear the chaos
of like the Peruvian
streets and I would like fall asleep and
I'd have this dream that I was in Russia
standing on the corner of this like
Embassy or some some federal building
and somebody would come out of a car and
like grab me and and like hijack me and
like take me hostage but it was like
over and over again I had this dream to
the point where I began to believe I was
losing my mind that like how can I have
the same dream i' like wake up in a in a
in a in a panic I missed my wife so
terribly she was pregnant with our first
child it was awful it was like the worst
time of my life and it's hard to even
even now to put it into words it was
just like I had bordering on like a
mental collapse and it was in part
because I just didn't appreciate the
fact that like you're going to another
part of the world where everything is
different and I also sort of began to
confront I guess my demons from the the
playment to Afghanistan there were just
some things that I that we did that I
did that were not necessarily wrong or
like illegal at all but just like it's
war and war is like this horrible thing
and seeing it up
close man it's it's just it's rough you
know and at the time you're you're so
conditioned to not only see war and be
okay with it but to practically Revel in
it because how else do you get young men
to keep going to war and keep fighting
and dying you need men and women but it
was like I yeah it was it was like I had
like a breakdown like a mental sort of
questioning why am I in the military you
know questioning who I
was and so I ended up getting medically
retired and it was not really from from
Peru at all it was more like I was so
unhappy I came back from Peru and I just
detested the fact that I was in the
military I I didn't feel like it was the
place for me I also was physically
injured I was dealing with the
injuries and I ended up getting
medically retired but it was my choice
if I wanted to continue to see a
therapist after I got out and at first I
didn't at first when I got out at when I
got medically retired I just was like
whatever I'm done I'm on my own but I
was so angry all the time like just
everything made me mad I was so like on
edge not even like jumpy but just I was
just like so high strung and it got to
the point where like nobody wanted to be
around me like my kids didn't want to be
around me my wife didn't want to be
around me and ultimately they were like
I think you need to see somebody and I
was like you know what I think I do too
like I feel like I'm a mess and it was
through therapy that I this is like 2018
or so that I realized I had some very
deep-seated issues with myself with my
service with just stuff I saw and did
and it was only when I began to sort of
openly talk about those things that I
actually began to sort of forgive myself
and begin to feel content like con uh
what's the word content again you know
it's not about like therapy is not meant
to make you forget stuff it's to it's to
give you perspective that you didn't
have and I just I think I had fallen
into a cycle of like just detesting who
I was
and why
I think that it was like ultimately if I
would to boil it down to its simplest
part it's like I wanted to be a Navy
Seal in part because I just wanted to go
through the training I wanted to serve
in the military but I didn't really
think that hard about that it was mostly
like I want to serve because it's an
honorable thing and I know people that
have done it and and that's something
that means something to me but it was
really the draw to be a seal that was
the challenge that I saw that's the
thing it's going to take years to do it
it's like this really hard thing it was
like the idea of even contemplating what
life would be like as a seal felt like
even cart before the horse it's like who
do you think you are thinking about what
it's going to be like to be a seal like
if you ever get there you'll figure it
out and this is actually a I think it's
a relatively common phenomenon that the
the people that become seals it's almost
surprising like you become a seal and
you're like wait a minute like now I'm
going to be a Navy SEAL which sounds
goofy but it's years to get to that
point and all the way up until the end
to to a degree you can not make it you
can like fail out and so you finally
become a seal and you realize like the
reality of the job and I and I say this
not because I have deep exposure to this
but because it's just true which is in
this job people die and you kill people
like that's kind of the gist of the job
there's way more to it than that but
it's it's like a that's the job guys
like why do why do you think they make
video games and movies about it and I
think that there's a a mental
conditioning to being able to do that
job that comes from training and frankly
it's it's a remarkable thing that
they're able to create this this system
that creates really capable Warf
Fighters because that's how you protect
your country that's how you go out and
and do what you got to do but when you
come out of that when you sort of what's
the word it's almost like when you it's
like you enter this this Matrix of
thinking when you go through training
and you become like willing and able to
to to fight Wars basically but when you
begin to fracture and you begin to sort
of realize that you want to do something
else with your life you have to like
kind of come to terms with what you have
been doing and the way you've been
thinking about it you begin to view who
you were as a seal as a person you don't
for me only I was not proud of the
person I had become I had sort of really
leaned into being as aggressive and as
like you know like Alpha as I possibly
could be not with my teammates but just
in doing the job that I had sort of
drifted down a path that I wasn't very
proud of and I think that realizing that
this wasn't a fit for me like being in
the seals even though I got medically
retired I think I realized it wasn't a
fit for me and I would have gotten out
whether or not I was medically retired
it was really difficult to cope with
that loss of identity you still have
those
demons yeah but I go to therapy for them
and shout out to Vinnie shoran who
actually he's based in the UK uh he's my
therapist uh he's awesome we haven't
really delved too deeply into the
military stuff but yeah I think that
it's it's something that will always be
with me I certainly when I think about
having served I'm very proud and I'm
proud to have been I'm a veteran now and
I the people I worked with were
incredible even the people that hate me
now like it doesn't mean I think any
less of them there there's there are
incredible people in the military I
think that I just sort of it wasn't a
fit for me it was like I I I thought the
military was but it was the seal thing
that Drew me in and in many ways this is
going to sound weird but but I was sort
of lucky enough uh to get to deploy to
Afghanistan and actually have a combat
deployment because many people what
happens is they go to like a war
fighting unit like a special operations
unit and then they never see combat and
it's not because they made any decision
it's just the way it goes and those
people it's sort of like they have this
unchecked box yeah but it's not their
decision and so in a way I was given
this gift that sounds horrible to say it
that way but I don't know how else to
say it of getting to sort of do the job
in real life
but there are sort of like and to
anybody who's listening that's done
multiple deployments like look at look
at this guy like I don't claim to have
like oh I've done 87 deployments and
this is my experience it's just from
like I had one combat tour
one but it was enough to show me that
like that isn't what I was cut out to do
and I think that but I still did those
things and I still was that person and
now as a civilian sort of reconciling
that I'm such a different person now in
a good way I've taken all the best
qualities I possibly could and I've
poured them into this person I'm trying
to be a good husband and a good dad and
I'm trying to do all the right things
but it's like I have this part of me
that it's just crazy to me that I was
ever in Navy SEAL it's crazy everybody
has their demons to some degree whether
it's you know it's a spectrum of how
strong those demons can be and how how
much control they can have over your
decisions
um what have you learned about dealing
with demons that might be of any because
you've been to therapy lot a lot of
people haven't um a lot of people maybe
even haven't arrived at the awareness
that they they need to go yet what have
you learned about dealing with demons
that might be useful to anybody
listening that uh you can't talk
yourself out of them it's if you a demon
to me is something that if you begin to
have those thoughts and you feel them
creeping in and you tell yourself stop
thinking about it I don't want to I
don't want to deal with that I don't
want to think about that if you have
those thoughts in your life that even
just the slightest beginning of a
thought about that thing starts to creep
into your head and your and your
reaction to it is not now I don't want
to do this I can't do this right now
it's all happening in your head if
that's something that you deal with
that's a demon it's something that is
like the uncontrollable thought that
comes into your head it usually happens
at the same time of the day or same
thing that triggers it and if your
reaction to it is oh my God I can't
think about this thing like that is a
demon in your life and you are not going
to be able at least in my opinion long
term to Simply convince yourself that
that's not a demon it is a demon it
doesn't matter if it's rational or not
uh for me I have several that sort of
creep into my life but the only way I
have found to sort of cope with them is
to sort of not embrace them because
that's not what you do is to talk about
them with someone who it's it's it's
cathartic to talk about it with a
therapist but it's even more cathartic
to almost hear yourself talking about it
like you actually have for me
specifically like I have things that
I've said in therapy that I can't
believe I'm saying out loud that are so
like personal and intimate and so tied
to like deep insecurities and pains in
my life but it's only in that
environment with like a a third party
who's neutral in a private setting that
these things just come to the surface
and I'm saying these things and the
beautiful thing about having a great
therapist is their whole gig is they're
they're listening and interpreting and
providing perspective they're not trying
to like tell you oh that's that's not a
thing it's like well have you thought
about it this way Chu me that perfect t
one of the things that I think about all
the time because my life is quite hectic
and busy is how to manage my energy load
and as a podcaster you kind of have to
manage your energy in such a way that
you can have these articulate
conversations with experts on subjects
you don't understand and this is why
perfect Ted has become so important in
my life because previously when it came
to Energy Products I had to make a
trade-off that I wasn't happy with
typically if I wanted the energy I had
to deal with high sugar I had to deal
with Jitters and crashes that come along
with a lot of the mainstream Energy
Products and I also just had to tolerate
the fact that if I want energy I have to
put up with a lot of artificial
ingredients which my body didn't like
and that's why I invested in perfect Ted
and why they're one of the sponsors of
this podcast it has changed not just my
life but my entire team's life and for
me it's drastically improved my
cognitive performance but also my
physical performance so if you haven't
tried perfect Ted yet you must have been
living under a rock now is the time you
can find perfect Ted at Tesco and
waitrose or online where you can enjoy
40% off with code diary 40 at checkout
head to perfect ted.com quick one I want
to tell you about a new health product
Gadget that's had a big impact on my
life but also my partner's life they are
a sponsor of this podcast and me and my
partner are both quite obsessed with it
now it is the Bon charge infrared SAA
blanket have you ever heard of an
infrared sauna blanket before infrared
SAA blankets are designed to give you
the exact same benefits of infrared
saers that you find at gyms and spas and
health clubs but they're portable you
can use them at home you can use them
when you travel and anywhere in between
it heats the body directly rather than
the air around you and for me when I use
the bond charge infrared s a blanket
before I sleep my sleep scores go up I'm
better recovered the next day when I go
to the gym because it helps with
circulation and stiffness and muscle
soreness but also infrared is associated
with really improving your skin they are
a sponsor of this podcast and because of
that they've offered all of you
listeners a 25% discount when you try
Bond charges infrared SAA blankets today
to get that discount use the code diara
checkout and you'll also get free
shipping and a year-long warranty head
to bonch charge.com diary and get
started on your in Fred SAA Journey
today your father you mentioned earlier
that your you you were raised by a
single mother in the basement at least
yeah has how has your father been a sort
of key figure in the man that you are
and we talk about demons sure and the
demons that you have so you know it's
funny my dad and I recently have sort of
had a a Resurgence um he and I sort of
had I guess you could call call it a
falling out um I was very close with my
dad growing up my parents split when I
was 13 and even though I was living with
my mom and sisters my dad was a very
active part of my life it isn't like I
didn't see him again but we had like a
good relationship me and my dad and then
when I left for the Navy it came after I
I had found a way to graduate college
and I was talking about law school a
little bit and I think my dad he was
like that's great my son like he turned
it around he's he's got this this career
in mind that seems like a really strong
idea and I sort of sprung it on him and
my mom and my sis my sisters that I'm
like actually no when I graduate college
I'm going to enlist in the Navy and try
to be a Navy SEAL I hadn't really talked
about it with them at all I mean I'm
exaggerating but it was a very quick
turnaround and I I didn't want to talk
to them about it because I knew they'd
say one why will you make it through and
two why are you doing this and so when I
began talking about it like right at the
end of my college career like literally
I'm getting ready to enlist my dad I
think he couldn't quite wrap his mind
around the idea that I really was going
to do this for for reasons that make
sense to me now that didn't at the time
like it's his son if you're successful
that's not good you're going to be a
Navy SEAL like going to war if you're
not successful and you wash out a
training you're stuck in the N you're
stuck in the Navy in the sense that you
don't get to pick another job you kind
of become needs of the Navy and you have
to go do like these crappy jobs for like
four years nobody likes being stuck if
they they don't have what's called a
rate it's like your job so it's like
he's viewing it as both outcomes sort of
come with big negatives but the way it
came out to me was he doesn't believe in
me he doesn't believe I can be a Navy
SEAL like he thinks I'm not going to
make it that I'm sure that was not what
he intended but that's the way I
interpreted it and it marked like a a
departure in our relationship in 2010 I
left for the for boot camp and while he
and I absolutely maintained some level
of contact from 20 10 until quite
literally like a few months ago I barely
spoke to my dad by choice I had a lot of
ill will towards him I always just sort
of felt like he doesn't believe in me he
also he got remarried and he has and
he's you know he got remarried as a
family it just I I had a lot of
resentment towards him that some was
founded much of it was not and it sort
of became something that it never was
which is I had it in my head that my dad
doesn't believe in me that really was
the thought and it actually helped
Propel me to at times there were there
were days in Seal training where I I
would literally think to
myself if I don't make it I can't even
fathom what it would be like to face my
dad who in my head at the time I'm like
he'd be like told you so like the idea
of that it made my skin crawl you know
so it in many ways my relationship with
my dad it had become sort of negative
for many years but it it sort of
maintained a pretty healthy chip on my
shoulder that pushed me to sort of prove
him wrong in a sense uh but with
self-awareness recently like very
recently through therapy with my boy
Vinnie shoran uh and through some sort
of the world lining up he and I sort of
reconnected uh and we actually had some
Frank discussions about that and it
turns out that no my dad just literally
was worried about his son and felt like
I didn't like him or love him and we
sort of drifted and life happens I had
my life he had his life but we've
reconnected now and I I'm I'm happy for
it there's a lot of men that aren't at
the place yet where they they'll speak
openly about their demons and how
they're feeling and their emotions and
stuff especially I mean people that have
been in combat and that seen as big
tough guys right sure what would you say
to those men that maybe you know because
we all feel things sure most of us don't
have the tools to know how to talk about
it we don't have the the environment
maybe we don't have friends or Outlets
where we can talk about it and a lot of
men don't feel like they can even I was
one of those men that probably until
about the last I'd say two years I would
never tell my partner if I was having a
bad day if I was feeling bad if I was
anxious in anyway if I was struggling
with something I would always try and
shield everyone from it like I thought
as a man my job was to just take it yes
take everything absorb hold but what I
came to learn is that it is coming out
yeah but in with unintended consequences
in in unexpected ways it's coming out
somewhere maybe in my mood um maybe in
my health maybe in my habits um maybe in
my search for quick fixes of dopamine
it's going to come out so I ran the
experiment one day of just like sitting
my partner down and saying look I'm I
haven't been honest with you this is how
I feel and this is what's happened this
is what I'm going through yeah and it
was such
a important pivotal experiment in my
life because see that you know what I
mean yeah I do so I'm just wondering
what Journey you've been on with opening
up I think that taking men specifically
as an example
you sort of have like the the societ the
these socially acceptable things that
can be demons for you that maybe we
don't talk about them but if you did no
one's really going to bat an ey like
turns out I hate my job and you know it
turns out I I I don't love my partner
okay these are bad things but they're
things that if you brought them up no
one's going to question your manhood
they're not going to question you know
things that that Society views as
important
right it's the stuff that is super
personal to you that's like could be
potentially embarrassing those are the
things that are your real demons I'm not
saying those other things aren't demons
they are they are but if you can't talk
about those things they will dog you
your whole life they really will and so
I think it's not about you need to go
sign up for therapy and go talk to a
therapist but I do think that like you
mentioned it yourself you have to be
able to sort of like unburden yourself
and part of that is is simply talking
about it like uh I had one this is not
really a demon but to give people a
sense who are watching this of like how
comfortable I am being forward about
things that I struggle with so oddly
enough one of the reasons that I was
also drawn to the military believe it or
not was I struggle mightily to urinate
in front of other people just publicly
going to the bathroom in front of other
people it's not like it's destroying my
life but it's uncomfortable like it's
easier for me if I'm alone right I knew
this about myself at a young age don't
have a reason for it but like I knew
when I was like in high school or like
in college like I would go to a bathroom
that was Private because that was easier
for me and as I got older I was like
that's not really that normal that this
is happening to me and so part of the
reason I was interested in the Navy is
they drug test you and they do it really
publicly and it was like in order to
deal with this I have to go into an
organization that literally will force
me to have to urinate in front of other
people but like for me it's sort of like
facing these things that are hyper
personal like inability to pee in front
of other people which you know I've
overcome but you have to be willing to
sort of identify those things and in my
case I talked to my wife about it before
I joined the Navy and she's like okay I
talked to my therapist about it recently
as well but it's sort of like that's a
really specific personal thing that if I
brought that up in in a casual
conversation I'm sure there are people
that could actually relate to it but
most people would be like this a little
uncomfortable you brought that up but
like everybody's got stuff that falls
into that category maybe not
specifically but you everybody's got
weird insecurities and they've got
things that drive their decisions that
would be to them deeply embarrassing to
bring up that is the reason you have to
bring them up because they will they
will dog you and they will always be
there until you deal with them and for
me it's been helpful in cathartic to
State them out loud and then do
something about them the other thing
I've noticed is that when I don't State
them especially in the context of a
relationship
is you live misunderstood yeah that's
true so like let's play out the scenario
that in you struggle to urinate in front
of other people your M your wife might
always start to wonder why you don't
want to go to certain places or when
you're in those places you're acting
strange she'll misunderstand that is
maybe he's X Y and Z and then you're
dealing with a problem you're dealing
with another set of problem he's like
he's cheating on me no no it's like
actually it was just we didn't have an
environment a safe space where we could
talk about the actual issue so I've
created like five other issues and I
have that in my life where I'm like Fu
if I just told the truth it's a shame
that sometimes I have to get to the like
bust up moment turn around and say
you've got this totally wrong and the
reason why you've got this totally wrong
is because I didn't tell you the truth
yeah and it's LED you off down a path
which is really unfortunate it's caused
us more hurt than me just being honest
with you yeah but it's I'm not saying
it's going to be easy I think um
like many of the things you've described
in your story first you have to just
take one step in that direction I'm not
saying like pull your partner in and
like offload or offload with therapist
today it's just you have to run the
experiment yeah to build the evidence
and have it compound and go actually
this is a better life than secrecy
keeping everything to yourself you you
know there's some when I interview
people there's always questions I know
that they get asked all the time yeah
and I'm like do I ask him the question
that I know he probably gets asked all
the time but you're so good at telling
stories yeah you really really are great
at telling thank um so there's really
two questions I wanted to end with I
guess we we've got a couple of minutes
but sure the first question is to be a
great Storyteller and we're all telling
stories whether we know it or not yep is
there any principles that you've come to
learn that you could give me to tell
better stories yeah uh so I would say
Obviously the medium by which you're
telling the story matters but if we're
talking about literally speaking a story
telling a story and assuming you have
people listening to that story right in
front of you which is the a medium by
which many of us tell stories telling
our friends telling our family
members to tell a really good story it
has less to do with the content of the
story and more to do with the delivery
of that story when I told you the deot
past story I was fully committed to
telling you that story I didn't care if
you thought it was interesting or not I
I thought it was interesting enough that
I was going to give you my hand gestures
I'm like gonna make sure I harp on the
details that I find really interesting
but it's like a level of commitment to
telling that story like that's the key
it's commit to be like you have to be in
the story and like for example when I'm
uh when I did the live tour like that's
the purest form of you're either going
to be awkward up there and like get
through it or you're going to [__]
own the story be in the stories and tell
it to those people right there and
they're going to hear what I want to
tell them so it's like the delivery it's
not just practice and get your words
right hardly I dude I don't even use a
script when I tell stories I look at the
story I learn the story I internalize
the story and then I inhabit the story
and when I tell you the story it should
almost feel like I was there like that
is the level of commitment you need and
I would say also like with regards to
General storytelling it really is true
that it has less to do with like
finessing the language so it's perfect
or getting your script exactly right
it's like I would say when it comes to
most stories you you need to make sure
there's some sort of payoff at the end
of the story which is sort of like
storytelling 101 but if you look at the
way newspapers structure stories for
those who maybe don't read the new
newspaper or generally here here's how
it
goes this thing happened and now I'm
going to tell you the details of what
that thing is and how it happened right
that that's not good storytelling that's
that's great for getting information
across but all too often if you look on
like YouTube or if you look at other
people who tell like you know mysteries
for example sometimes in their their
header it'll be like you know crazy like
golden you know skeleton found in cave
in Russia and like actually that's
pretty compelling Maybe maybe I'd read
that but it's like you Suzanne murdered
you know in in London like and then you
click on it till they find out what
happened but it's like you don't want
your audience to already in certain in
certain cases you don't necessarily want
your audience to know where the story is
going they might have a very strong
inclination that Suzanne's going to get
killed at the end of the story or
there's going to be a gold skeleton
found in Russia but being a Storyteller
your job is to keep people invested and
to build tension and to get them like
ready for the payoff that the end any
story can have a Twist at the end it it
depends on how you tell it like it isn't
like some stories have payoffs and some
don't absolutely not you can use point
of view you can you can inhabit aspects
of the story that give different lenses
into the story but own the story when
you tell it and ensure that there's some
type of payoff at the end whatever it is
like when I told you the de law past
story like ultimately the goal is to get
you to see the wow all these conflicting
things there's pictures of this and that
but the Russian government set an
unknown uh unnatural force is
responsible and then close the case the
whole point of that is to say all these
crazy things that are objective they
objectively happened that we have data
we have pictures we have all these
things i' I've demonstrated that to
you and clearly something's wrong and
they sealed the case and no one could
look into it the whole point is to make
you think what is going on over there
but if I had said guess what there's
this case that's sealed and and no one
will look into it here's what happened
it's the same story but I've opened with
the reveal you got to do it the other
way so pay off at the end and own and
own the storytelling aspect of it I'll
go and tell people to check it out on
your channel but is there a particular
story on your channel that is this was
the cliche question um that is your
favorite oh man it's like asking your
favorite kids right I would say the
story that I'm the most proud of in
terms of just how difficult it was to
piece it together is the the headless
Valley and it's actually in our graphic
novel as well um it isn't that it's
literally the best story but it's a
story that is a composite of a whole
bunch of anecdotes over about a hundred
years there's this I know don't have
have time but there's this place in
Canada called the Northwest Territories
and so it's it's a part of Canada that's
already very remote and it's just
Wilderness and forests and there's this
section called the Northwest Territories
which is even more remote it's it's as
big as Germany but Germany has like 50
million residents and this has like
50,000 people there so it's like no one
lives there and within the Northwest
Territories there's this Valley this
like River that cuts through this
beautiful Valley called the nahani
valley which has been now dubbed The
Headless Valley because over the course
of like a hundred years all these people
who have gone into this Valley have
turned up headless they've been but like
in the most bizarre ways and you and
also you can't really get into this
Valley it's very difficult to do you
can't fly there you can't hike there you
have to either take a boat upstream and
literally carry a boat up a couple
waterfalls and then continue going
upstream or there is an Overland hike
but it's like 70 miles of treacherous
terrain so it's like really hard to get
there it's totally remote and the only
other people that ever lived there were
the the nahani tribe and they one day
somebody was actually there on a Hunting
Expedition they noticed that the Nani
tribe which made up like hundreds of
people they were camped out along this
this River they disappeared overnight
and literally nobody knows what happened
to them they left behind their all their
equipment all their their housing it's
all it was left they just vanished no
one knows what happened to them and
there's rumors of like white white
creatures wandering the woods uh but I
took like seven or eight anecdotes
chronologically and pieced them all
together and created what in my opinion
is the most comprehensive Narrative of
what could be happening in the Headless
Valley and I'm very proud of the way it
was written and put together and it's in
it's the first story in the graphic
novel as well we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next not
knowing who they're leaving it for and
the question left for you is what do you
see as the most desirable future for the
New Media podcast world I would say that
what I love about the podcast space that
I hope continues is that it is not
corporate in the sense that it's totally
like uh anybody can start a podcast
we're seeing so many podcasts but it's
it's like podcast rise based on the
Merit of those shows versus uh like
there's not a lot of corporate pushing
behind podcasts it's sort of like the
corporations show up and take the
podcast or try to license podcasts that
have already sort of made their their
place but they don't have a lot of
influence over who or what they do so
it's like it's this great meritocracy of
content where the podcasts are growing
and succeeding based largely on Merit
and skill and they're covering all these
topics that are like so far-reaching so
it's like it just feels sort of
authentic I know there are plenty of
corporate podcasts out there too and
there's nothing wrong with that but I
hope that podcasting continues to be
this sort of like how in the world are
like The Joe Rogan podcast and like you
know whatever the random podcast you
want to name like these like Titans of
industry but it's like it's so random
but it's like it's like the beautiful
product of just like human like
authenticity and willingness to talk
about stuff I love it I think that it's
a very authentic place that has not been
corporatized yet
amen John thank you so much for
everything that you do um thank you it's
really really incredible it's really
incredible you run a phenomenal media
company which I don't think people truly
understand Nick wit's does you and Nick
Runner phenomenal Media company which I
think I don't know if people understand
the scale and size of that Media company
but it's truly impressive and you have
this awesome graphic novel yes in the
graphic novel it's a New York Times
bestseller uh it's an anthology of Nine
Stories it's it's beautiful uh and we
intend to continue making more of them
so definitely check out the graphic
novel makes a great holiday gift it is
absolutely gorgeous the illustrations
and the all the I think you call them
illustrations the illustrations are
phenomenal AB proud of it thank you so
much for all that you do I'm someone
that loves is absolutely enthralled by
all these stories I love mysteries I
love Unsolved Mysteries and I love True
Crime so and as we were saying before we
got recording me and my uh partner when
she lets me listen to these things in
bed and it helps me sleep and your
channel is is by far in way the best at
this because you're such a gifted
Storyteller thank and as you've been
speaking to me today I've been thinking
Ah that's I've been trying to piece
together what makes you so brilliant as
a Storyteller um I guess it's a long
journey a family influence and generally
probably you know the experience that
you've had so thank you for what you do
thank you for your time today as well
and it's been an honor to learn about
your story of reinvention but also to
hear some of these stories which by the
way I need to go and figure out this
[__] what's it called dein pass the
deav pass the diatlov pass pretty well
thank you and it's an honor to be on
your show really thank you so much for
having me I appreciate
you I'm going to let you into a little
bit of a secret you're probably going to
think me and my team are a little bit
weird but I can still remember to this
day when Jima from my team posted on
slack that she changed the scent in this
studio and right after she posted it the
entire office clapped in our slack
Channel and this might sound crazy but
at the diary ofo this is the type of 1%
Improvement we make on our show and that
is why the show is the Way It Is by
understanding the power of compounding
1% you can absolutely change your
outcomes in your life it isn't about
drastic Transformations or quick wins
it's about the small consistent actions
that have a lasting change in your
outcomes so two years ago we started the
process of creating this beautiful diary
and it's truly beautiful inside there's
lots of pictures lots of inspiration and
motivation as well some interactive
elements and the purpose of this diary
is to help you identify stay focused on
develop consistency with the 1% that
will ultimately change your life we're
only going to do a limited run of these
Diaries so if you want one for yourself
or for a friend or for a colleague or
for your team then head to the diary.com
right now I'll link it below
[Music]
ah